.Dt PASSLOCK 8
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 7 2020$
.Os
.
.
.Sh NAME
.
.Nm passlock
.Nd manages and verify passwords
.
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.
.Nm passlock-check
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl s Ar ms
.Fl h Ar pattern
.Fl p Ar pattern
.Ar cmd
.Ar [...]
.Ar 3<user-pass-string
.
.Nm passlock-set
.Op Fl v
.Fl p Ar pattern
.Ar user
.Ar <passphrase
.
.Nm passlock-debug
.
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.
The
.Nm passlock
toolset manages passwords using libsodium, and provides a password backend for
various daemons.
.
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.
.It Fl v
Display the version.
.
.It Fl d Ar path
Specifies the file to use as a password storage.
.
.It Fl s Ar sleep
Wait for
.Ar sleep
seconds in case the password fails.
.
.El
.
.Pp
.Nm passlock-set
sets the path specified by
.Fl p Ar pattern
to a
.Xr libsodium 3
hash of the password read from stdin.
.
.Pp
.Nm passlock-check
is a checkpassword replacement: it execute its
.Ar cmd Op Ar arg...
only if the authentication string from file descriptor 3 matches the password
at the path specified by
.Fl p Ar pattern .
Password read follow this format (with the realm ignored):
.Dq user\\\\0password\\\\0realm
.
.Pp
.Nm passlock-debug
simply logs the information sent to it to standard error and fails to log the user.
This might reveal the password.
.
.Pp
The
.Ar pattern
arguments will have all percent signs and the following character replaced according to the following character:
.
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.
.It Ic %d
The domain part of an email address.
.
.It Ic %l
The local part of an email address.
.
.It Ic %u
The whole username.
.
.It Ic %%
Puts the percent sign itself, used for escaping the percent if needed.
.
.El
.
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.
.Ex -std
.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.
.Bd -literal
$ authd passlock-check -p /etc/pass/%u protected-daemon -args
.Ed
.
.Bd -literal
$ printf '%s\\0' "$user" "$pass" "$(date +%s)" \e
  | passlock-check -h /var/mail/%d/%l/Maildir -p /var/mail/%d/%l/pass 3>&0 \e
      echo success
.Ed
.
.
.Sh STANDARDS
.
.Lk "checkpassword: a simple password-checking interface" https://cr.yp.to/checkpwd.html
.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.
.An Josuah Demangeon
.Aq Mt man@josuah.net
